hi guys welcome back to another huge
jefferies video in this video i'm going
to be restoring this trashed macbook pro
which i purchased for a hundred dollars
of buy swap and sell it is by far the
worst conditioned mac i've ever seen it
has a large number of dents scratches
and is even bent on the left side near
the ethernet port the hinge also appears
to be broken as the screen is completely
loose you can also see that there's
quite a lot of dirt on both the inside
and outside of this macbook pro whilst
restoring this i will also be
customizing the apple logo and backlit
keyboard to a custom purple color
before we get started i'd like to thank
ifixit for sponsoring this video
get tools parts and guides at ifixit.com
hugh jeffries or the link below
right let's get back into the video now
while this macbook looks quite rough
around the edges i wasn't really sure
what the inside of this macbook looked
like so sure enough removing the screws
i was able to get into the device and i
was greeted with a lot of dirt now this
was mainly because the two bottom feet
had fallen off of this macbook which
just allowed dust and dirt to enter into
the device no idea how long this has
been uh the case but you can see from
these shots just how dirty this thing
really was
now the first thing i wanted to do
before i even turn this on was just to
see if that fan was clogged up given all
the dust you can see a lot of fluff and
dirt which i'll need to remove
and just give that a quick wipe over
before i actually power on this device
for the first time and install an
operating system i also found a loose
screw inside which appeared to be one of
the hinge screws although that didn't
fix the loose hinge issue i did give the
macbook a quick clean
before i actually reinstalled mac os 10
mavericks i chose this version as it was
best suited for the 500 gigabyte hard
drive that was still in this machine
going to the apple section and about i
can see this is a late 2011 model
although i actually purchased it as a
late 2012 model the battery has almost
1200 charge cycles on it so that
definitely needs to be replaced in terms
of parts that i'll be using i've got a
replacement battery from ifixit a bottom
case a top lid
and front panel glass i've got an upper
case
a new 500 gig ssd
as well as a new clutch cover which is
the little piece of plastic that goes
between the screen and hinges okay so
i'm going to start the repair off with
the screen assembly now i could have
just bought a whole replacement display
assembly which would contain the lid the
front glass and the lcd however the lcd
in this macbook worked fine so i
actually just wanted to replace the back
lid i also ordered a replacement front
glass panel in case i cracked the old
one removing it the glass panel is
actually recessed into the screen and
the slightest pressure cracks the glass
so of course it shattered into a million
pieces if you've done an ipad repair
you'll know sort of what this is like
but with about 15 minutes of heating and
prying the glass finally came free from
the frame and i could remove it in one
giant big piece i'll also need to make
sure to remove the adhesive so i can see
those screw holes later on
of course i tested the screen just to
make sure it was still working and i
didn't damage it in any way removing the
glass
with that done i can flip the macbook
over and remove the battery which was
only held in by one screw as the other
tab for the battery had already snapped
off now apple used tri-wing screws for
the battery but luckily i had this
strange bit in my ifixit tool kit next
to go is this stock gross 500 gig 5400
rpm hard drive which will later be
replaced with an ssd it's time to move
across to removing the logic board from
the device so i can start by removing
all of the flex cables that are
connecting to the board there's quite a
lot of these and it's important to
remove them so you don't damage the
connector if you accidentally leave one
in place
it's also very important to be careful
around the lcd cable as that is very
fragile and easy to damage
with those removed i can remove all of
the screws holding in both the logic
board and fan assembly
with those screws removed making sure to
remove the two for the magsafe charger i
can begin by lifting up the logic board
and putting it at an angle the reason
for this is i'll need to disconnect the
microphone from the underneath side of
the logic board
at this point you may also need to
disconnect the speaker as the cable for
the microphone goes underneath the
speaker derouting all of those cables
allows you to take out the logic board
from the macbook pro with the board
removed we can take a closer look at it
and you can see just like the rest of
the computer it's covered in dust and
really needs a good clean
putting that aside though i'm going to
move across to the lcd assembly and
remove that from the macbook pro i'll
need to remove these screws for the
hinges and disconnect the wi-fi and
bluetooth card as well as remove this
speaker from the laptop itself whilst
removing this i'll need to de-route some
of the cables and unscrew some of these
grounding clips that connect to various
parts of the laptop's chassis with the
wi-fi and bluetooth card removed i can
finally access the three screws for the
lcd hinge
with those removed on both sides i can
lift and remove the old lcd screen
and then i can go ahead and remove the
clutch cover which is just a piece of
plastic covering up the hinges
you can see here this is the reason for
the sloppy display both the left and
right hinges are completely loose as the
screws have loosened over years of use
and abuse
if you were just trying to fix this you
could just tighten these screws and get
away with using the macbook again
however i'm changing the back housing so
i'm going to need to remove these to
transfer them across to the new lcd lid
removing the three screws they come
right off
next i can move across to the antenna
which is on the display
it's connected with some cables which
i'll need to deroute later on next to
come out is this lcd screen panel which
has a total of six screws
now the connector itself is right down
at the bottom of the screen and you've
sort of got to feed the lcd wire into
the lid a little bit further once you've
slid the lcd out enough you can
disconnect the cable carefully and you
can remove the lcd panel now i have a
little bit more access to remove the lcd
cable connector as well as access to the
webcam cable so to remove that i'll need
to disconnect the webcam and just remove
it it's only held in by adhesive so it
comes out quite easily and then i can
remove its cable
and retaining screw and feed them out
the bottom of the display now whilst
this deep inside the macbook i thought
it was good time to try out a custom mod
so i'm going to try and do a custom
colored apple logo on this macbook pro
so to attempt this i'll need to remove
the plastic filter that goes behind the
apple logo and then apply some heat to
around the sides of the logo and this
will soften the adhesive and pressing
the logo through removes the entire
apple logo as one piece however the only
issue is it's a solid color well it's
not actually and with a little bit of
nail polish remover which contains a lot
of acetone i can apply it to the back of
the logo i can allow it to sit for one
to two minutes then come in with my
fingernail and just start scraping away
at the coloring of the logo this took
probably 15 to 20 minutes and the end
result looked quite nice however i
snapped the apple leaf off of the top
when i was drawing the logo so make sure
to be very careful as it is extremely
thin and fragile as this was the logo
from the old lid i'll need to transfer
it across to the new lid by first
removing the new apple logo and
inserting my custom one now a
transparent logo wouldn't look very good
as the back of the lcd is just white so
i used some cellophane and inserted it
at the back of the logo before
reattaching the filter now i chose the
color purple as that's my favorite color
and i wanted a purple custom apple logo
with that all set and ready to go i can
install all of the original accessories
and pieces that go into the lcd screen
assembly
starting with the webcam cable i'll need
to feed that back into place screwing
its retention screw in and feeding it up
the side and top of the screen assembly
once that's ready to go i can reinstall
the webcam and stick it back into place
and now it's time to reinstall the
little cable that connects between the
lcd panel and logic board of the laptop
so that means i can connect up the lcd
panel being careful yet again not to
damage any of the pins or connector
making sure to put the retention bracket
into place
once that's all set and ready to go i
can slide the lcd back in to the frame
itself making sure the cable isn't
obstructed by any
plastic or pieces and then i can install
the antenna back into the screen lid
you can also see that this clutch cover
off of the old lcd assembly is cracked
and all scratched and beaten up so i've
also got a new one of those to go on
after i installed the screen hinges now
i'll need to just screw these into place
i found it easiest to install the back
screw first as it sort of lines
everything up now it's very important
not to over tighten these screws or you
could snap one off even though this
happened i was lucky enough that when i
went to sort of just sit the head of the
screw over what remained of it inside of
the hinge assembly i could actually turn
it and it would have enough grip that it
actually fully unscrewed so i got very
lucky with this and i actually just
found a screw to replace it with
with the hinges ready to go i can
install the new clutch cover back into
place and reinstall the six screws that
connect around the sides of the lcd
panel
coming back to the other half of the
laptop i can remove the optical drive by
removing the three screws holding it in
place next i de-routed the speaker wire
and removed the right side speaker using
a spudger and a pry tool from my pro-tec
toolkit
with those pieces removed it's time to
move across to the microphone which came
out quite easily with just a little bit
of a pry
next to come out is this little bracket
with two screws
after that i can move across to the
track pad and a couple of screws later
that thing falls right out of the old
top case
and that is everything we need to take
out of the old upper case so i've
actually got a brand new one to go on
this macbook pro i purchased this off of
ebay for around 75 and included with it
was also a bottom for the macbook pro
but that was used this is apparently an
apple official part which is also super
neat continuing with my purple theme i'm
going to insert this piece of cellophane
above the backlight layer of the
keyboard and a few people say that this
could affect with the cooling of the
laptop however you can see there's just
a giant piece of plastic which covers
the back of the keyboard so this
shouldn't affect the cooling in any way
okay so it's time to reinstall the
trackpad this is the used one from the
old upper case luckily i didn't have to
replace this as this one works fine and
isn't cracked or damaged in any way
i can install the microphone and the
speaker back into the top case making
sure to remove the adhesive and
reinstall the wire for it in its correct
position as it properly adheres to the
back of the case
next i can install the middle bracket
piece which
helps support the dvd drive and logic
board speaking of the dvd drive that's
to go in next with its three screws
before we go any further i'll need to
attach the lcd panel back into the
laptop itself however i was having an
issue where it wasn't lining up
correctly and there appeared to be a gap
between the two
as it turns out i installed the hinges
on the wrong side flipping those around
it now actually fits inside the laptop
correctly and lines up with the screw
holes
so i can install the three screws on
both sides of these hinges
and the lcd assembly is screwed back to
the frame there is also a number of
small components like these cable
re-routers and standoffs that will need
to be screwed in next it's important to
use the right screws as you don't want
to damage any of the frame or any other
components by inserting the wrong screw
into the wrong hole now whilst i was
doing this i could have opted to replace
the optical drive with another hard
drive although i found that the 500
gigabyte ssd should be adequate for what
this computer will be used for i'll need
to connect the three antenna cables
coming from the lcd assembly as well as
the one coming from the frame to the
wi-fi and bluetooth card
it's also important to route the cables
correctly so when you install the back
panel everything sits flush and screws
back together nicely with that prepped i
can install the speaker back into the
laptop itself making sure not to clip
any cables while screwing it back
together
now i can move back across to the front
lcd glass and remove the camera
alignment bracket to transfer across to
the new panel now the reason i left all
of this to last is i wanted to make sure
the laptop was 100 working before i
sealed up the glass panel to the new
screen assembly the reason for this was
as you saw at the beginning of the video
it will shatter if i try and remove it i
also took extra care to make sure no
dust was left underneath in between the
glass and lcd
with that ready to go i can move across
to the logic board before i install it
and give it a good clean
and a dust over
of course this wouldn't be a restoration
if i was to leave the old thermal paste
so i wiped that off which was hard and
crusty and then i applied some new
thermal paste to the cpu as you can see
i spread it out with a spudger i'm not
sure if that's the correct way of doing
it although i just thought that if it
was spread out it would conduct heat
better
tightening up the screws gradually
everything has been installed back into
place
i can then attach the microphone cable
and put the logic board back into the
new upper case assembly now this takes a
little bit to align as you need to make
sure that the flex cables for various
components of the macbook don't get
caught underneath the logic board when
you install it
once it's sitting into place i then
connected all of the connections and
flex cables going to various components
throughout the macbook
i could then connect the new
keyboard and backlight with that custom
purple color and as you can see
everything is now starting to look like
a macbook again i can reinstall the fan
assembly and begin installing all of the
screws holding in the magsafe connector
and logic board
after all of those screws have finally
been installed i can remove this part
number from the upper case before
installing my new ifixit battery and
screwing it in with two trialing screws
i can then install the brand new 500 gig
solid state drive into the macbook
connecting up its sata cable and
connecting it down into place and
securing it with a bracket and two
screws
after that's complete i can remove any
plastic coatings that are on top of any
of the new components we've just
installed
i can reattach the bottom panel back
onto the macbook and this completes the
restoration
so this is it a 100 trashed macbook pro
brought back to brand new condition and
even had a custom purple backlit
keyboard and apple logo installed taking
a look at the specs this late 2011
macbook pro features a 2.4 gigahertz
intel core i5 processor 4 gigs of ram
and a 500 gig ssd i am looking to
upgrade the ram in the future but for
now this is looking spectacular and is
performing adequately running mac os
10.9.5 and cosmetically this thing looks
brand new certainly a lot better than it
did at the beginning of this video and
on that note this has been a huge
jeffries video if you like what you saw
hit that subscribe button and consider
checking out the restoration playlist
for more videos just like this one also
make sure to follow me on my social
media for behind the scenes and get a
look at some nice photos of this newly
restored macbook pro link for which is
down in the description that's all for
this video and i'll catch you guys next
time